DIRB
DIRB is a web content scanner
that uses a wordlist to find directories
and pages by issuing
requests to the server.
DIRB can identify valid
web pages on a web server
even if the main index page is missing.
By default, DIRB will identify
interesting directories on the server
but it can also be customized to
search for specific directories,
use custom dictionaries,
set a custom cookie or header on
each request, and much more.
Let’s run DIRB on www.megacorpone.com.
We will supply several arguments:
the URL to scan,
-r to scan non-recursively,
and -z 10 to add a 10 millisecond
delay to each request.
According to the output,
DIRB made 4,612 requests
and reported the URL, status code,
and size of nine distinct resources.
By default, the tool will recurse
into newly-discovered directories,
but in this case, our non-recursive scan
simply reports directories
without descending into them.
Obviously, we could begin with a
non-recursive scan against a large target
and recursively search
interesting directories,
or begin with a full recursive
scan depending on our needs.